An introduction to Second Kings
Attributed to Jeremiah, Second Kings begins where First Kings ends.
The account spans some 340 years from about 920 to 580 BCE when the writing was completed.
The book describes the spiritual decline of both Israel and Judah until both kingdoms were taken into exile.
In chapter 2, the prophet Elijah is taken up in a windstorm.
His attendant Elisha succeeds him.
In chapters 4 and 5, Elisha resurrects the son of a Shunamite woman.
Elisha also miraculously feeds 100 people with 20 loaves of bread and a bag of grain
and he heals Syrian army chief Nehemen of leprosy.
In chapter 6, a military force from Syria is searching for Elisha.
They surround Dothan where he and his attendant are staying.
Jehovah opens the eyes of the fearful attendant so that he sees war chariots of fire all around Elisha.
In chapter 9, Jehu is anointed as King of Israel.
He is commanded to strike down the house of Ahab, which includes Ahab's widow, Jezebel.
In chapter 11, Ahab's daughter, Athalia, usurps the throne in Judah and attempts to eliminate the royal line.
However, high priest Jehoiada and his wife rescue the infant Jehoash.
When Jehoash is seven years old, he is made king and Athalia is put to death.
In chapter 15, Assyrian king Tiglath Pelesar III invades the northern kingdom and takes many into exile.
In chapter 17, Assyrian king Shalmanizir also invades Israel and takes the remaining people away captive.
Did you know? In an effort to discourage future uprisings, these Assyrian kings removed captives from conquered lands and replaced them with foreigners.
Those transplanted into Samaria became known as Samaritans.
In chapter 18, Hezekiah becomes King of Judah. He does what is right in God's eyes.
In Hezekiah's 14th year, Assyrian king Sinakirub invades Judah and threatens Jerusalem.
In chapter 19, Jehovah reveals to the prophet Isaiah that he will defend the city. Isaiah then sends God's message to Hezekiah.
On that very night, Jehovah's Angel strikes down 185,000 men in the Assyrian camp.
In chapter 21, Hezekiah's 12-year-old son Manasseh becomes King. He disobeys Jehovah on a grand scale, even making his own son pass through the fire.
In chapter 22, after the death of Manasseh and his son Aiman, 8-year-old Josiah becomes King. He does what is right in God's eyes.
The last three chapters of 2 Kings discuss the final four kings of Judah. Jehovah has, Jehovah Kim, Jehovah Kim and Zedekiah, all disobeye Jehovah.
In chapter 24, during Jehovah Kim's three-month reign, King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon besieges Jerusalem.
Jehovah Kim surrenders and is taken to Babylon with his princes, court officials, and servants.
In chapter 25, during Zedekiah's reign, Nebuchadnezzar attacks Jerusalem the second time.
The Babylonians burn down the temple, pull down the city walls, and take Zedekiah to Babylon with the surviving Jews.
Gedaliah is appointed governor over the few lowly ones who remain in Judah. However, he is assassinated and the people flee to Egypt.
As you read 2 Kings, note the hardships that bad rulers caused their subjects. See how Jehovah blessed the kings who loved him.
And read how he preserved the family line of David, which produced the one who later became King of God's Kingdom.